docs/README.md, before:

# 📚 jarvis AI - Documentation & Reference

This directory contains comprehensive documentation, guides, and reference materials for jarvis AI.

## 📁 Files

### 📖 `PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md` - Complete Project Guide
**Purpose**: Detailed explanation of every file, directory, and component in jarvis AI

#### What it contains:
- 📁 **Directory Structure** - Complete file organization
- 🎯 **File Purposes** - What each file does
- 🔗 **Component Links** - How parts work together
- 🚀 **Quick Start** - How to run and use the project

#### Sections:
```
📄 Core Application Files
🧠 core/ - Backend Logic
🎨 gui/ - User Interface
📊 data/ - Persistent Data
🧪 testing/ - Quality Assurance
🤖 model-training/ - AI Development
🛠️ development/ - Dev Tools
🔧 utilities/ - Helper Scripts
📋 docs/ & logs/ - Documentation & Debugging
```

#### How to Use:
```bash
# Read the complete project guide
cat docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Search for specific information
grep "core/" docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Learn about a specific component
less docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md
# /search_term to find what you need
```

---

### 🗂️ `.DS_Store` - macOS System File
**Purpose**: macOS Finder metadata (can be ignored)

#### What it is:
- 🍎 **macOS Only** - Finder folder settings
- 📁 **Metadata** - Folder view preferences
- 🔒 **System File** - Automatically managed by macOS
- ⚠️ **Safe to Ignore** - Not used by jarvis AI

#### Recommendation:
```bash
# Can be deleted if not using macOS
rm docs/.DS_Store

# Or add to .gitignore to prevent commits
echo ".DS_Store" >> .gitignore
```

---

## 📚 Documentation Purpose

### For New Users:
- 🎯 **Quick Start** - How to get jarvis AI running
- 📁 **Project Overview** - Understanding the codebase
- 🔧 **Configuration** - Setting up your preferences
- 🐛 **Troubleshooting** - Common issues and solutions

### For Developers:
- 🏗️ **Architecture** - How components work together
- 🔗 **API Reference** - Function and class documentation
- 🧪 **Testing Guide** - How to run and write tests
- 🤖 **Model Training** - Training custom AI models

### For Contributors:
- 📝 **Code Style** - Coding standards and conventions
- 🔀 **Git Workflow** - How to contribute changes
- 🧪 **Testing Requirements** - Quality assurance standards
- 📤 **Deployment** - How to release updates

---

## 🎯 Using the Documentation

### 1. **Getting Started**
```bash
# Read the project structure first
cat docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Then check the main README
cat README.md

# Follow the quick start guide
python main.py
```

### 2. **Development**
```bash
# Understand the architecture
grep "core/" docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Learn about GUI components
grep "gui/" docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Check testing procedures
cat testing/README.md
```

### 3. **Troubleshooting**
```bash
# Search for specific components
grep "problem_component" docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Check relevant README files
cat relevant_directory/README.md

# Look at log files
cat logs/*.log
```

---

## 📖 Documentation Structure

### High-Level Overview:
```
jarvis AI Documentation
├── 📋 README.md (Root) - User guide & setup
├── 📁 docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md - Technical overview
├── 📁 testing/README.md - Testing procedures
├── 📁 model-training/README.md - AI training
├── 📁 development/README.md - Dev tools
└── 📁 utilities/README.md - Helper tools
```

### Detailed Information:
- **🎯 Purpose** - Why each component exists
- **🔧 Usage** - How to use each tool
- **📋 Examples** - Practical usage examples
- **🐛 Troubleshooting** - Common issues and fixes
- **🔗 Dependencies** - How components connect

---

## 📝 Contributing to Documentation

### Adding New Documentation:
```bash
# Create new documentation file
echo "# New Feature Guide" > docs/new_feature.md

# Add content following the template:
# - Purpose
# - Usage
# - Examples
# - Troubleshooting
```

### Updating Existing Docs:
```bash
# Update when adding features
# Update when changing structure
# Update when fixing issues
# Keep examples current
```

### Documentation Standards:
- 📝 **Clear Language** - Simple, direct explanations
- 🎯 **Purpose-Driven** - Explain why, not just what
- 📋 **Examples** - Practical, copy-pasteable code
- 🔗 **Cross-References** - Link to related docs

---

## 🔍 Finding Information

### Search Documentation:
```bash
# Search all README files
grep -r "search_term" */README.md

# Find specific component info
find . -name "*.md" -exec grep -l "component_name" {} \;

# Search for file types
find . -name "*.py" | head -10
```

### Quick Reference:
```bash
# Project structure
cat docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Testing procedures
cat testing/README.md

# Model training
cat model-training/README.md

# Development tools
cat development/README.md
```

---

## 📚 Documentation Best Practices

### Writing Style:
- ✅ **Clear and Concise** - Get to the point
- ✅ **Action-Oriented** - Focus on what users can do
- ✅ **Examples First** - Show before telling
- ✅ **Consistent Formatting** - Use templates

### Organization:
- 📁 **Logical Structure** - Group related information
- 🔗 **Cross-References** - Link between documents
- 📋 **Table of Contents** - Help users navigate
- 🏷️ **Clear Headings** - Use descriptive titles

### Maintenance:
- 🔄 **Regular Updates** - Keep docs current with code
- 🧪 **Test Examples** - Ensure code examples work
- 📝 **User Feedback** - Incorporate user suggestions
- 📊 **Usage Analytics** - Track which docs are used most

---

## 🎯 Documentation Goals

### For Users:
- 🚀 **Quick Success** - Get started fast
- 🔧 **Easy Configuration** - Understand settings
- 🐛 **Problem Solving** - Fix issues independently
- 📈 **Feature Discovery** - Find all capabilities

### For Developers:
- 🏗️ **Architecture Understanding** - Know how it works
- 🔗 **Integration Points** - Connect components properly
- 🧪 **Testing Knowledge** - Ensure quality
- 🤖 **Model Training** - Customize AI behavior

### For Contributors:
- 📝 **Clear Guidelines** - Know how to contribute
- 🔀 **Workflow Understanding** - Follow processes
- 🧪 **Quality Standards** - Maintain excellence
- 📤 **Release Process** - Deploy changes correctly

---

This documentation serves as your complete guide to understanding, using, and developing jarvis AI. Whether you're a user wanting to get started, a developer extending functionality, or a contributor improving the project, you'll find the information you need here! 📚✨

Commit message:

Rebrand Jarvis to Wolf; update wakeword & TTS
Rebrand the project from "jarvis" to "Wolf" across docs, GUI, and core modules. Changes include: updated README/docs and asset references (avatar, repo names, quick-start), window title and splash icon, and many GUI theme strings.

Configuration updates: HF router repo, default WAKE_WORD -> "wolf", increased wakeword sensitivity, REALTIMESTT_MODEL bumped to "small", and settings storage path renamed. KnowledgeBase collection and PackLink/router docstrings updated to reflect Wolf.

STT improvements: runtime selection between built-in wakeword backend and transcription mode for custom words, alias list for robust "wolf" detection, wake-callback triggering and cleaned transcription handling.

TTS enhancements: introduce PIPER_VOICES map and selectable voice keys, centralize Piper release URL, make model download voice-aware, add update_voice() and initialize to use settings for dynamic voice switching. SettingsTab updated to expose TTS voice choices and listen for changes.

Misc: removed/trimmed some settings UI groups (weather), adjusted labels and about text, and updated testing docs. Overall this commit focuses on rebranding and improving wake-word/voice workflow.

docs/README.md, after:

# 📚 Wolf AI - Documentation & Reference

This directory contains comprehensive documentation, guides, and reference materials for Wolf AI.

## 📁 Files

### 📖 `PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md` - Complete Project Guide
**Purpose**: Detailed explanation of every file, directory, and component in Wolf AI

#### What it contains:
- 📁 **Directory Structure** - Complete file organization
- 🎯 **File Purposes** - What each file does
- 🔗 **Component Links** - How parts work together
- 🚀 **Quick Start** - How to run and use the project

#### Sections:
```
📄 Core Application Files
🧠 core/ - Backend Logic
🎨 gui/ - User Interface
📊 data/ - Persistent Data
🧪 testing/ - Quality Assurance
🤖 model-training/ - AI Development
🛠️ development/ - Dev Tools
🔧 utilities/ - Helper Scripts
📋 docs/ & logs/ - Documentation & Debugging
```

#### How to Use:
```bash
# Read the complete project guide
cat docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Search for specific information
grep "core/" docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Learn about a specific component
less docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md
# /search_term to find what you need
```

---

### 🗂️ `.DS_Store` - macOS System File
**Purpose**: macOS Finder metadata (can be ignored)

#### What it is:
- 🍎 **macOS Only** - Finder folder settings
- 📁 **Metadata** - Folder view preferences
- 🔒 **System File** - Automatically managed by macOS
- ⚠️ **Safe to Ignore** - Not used by Wolf AI

#### Recommendation:
```bash
# Can be deleted if not using macOS
rm docs/.DS_Store

# Or add to .gitignore to prevent commits
echo ".DS_Store" >> .gitignore
```

---

## 📚 Documentation Purpose

### For New Users:
- 🎯 **Quick Start** - How to get Wolf AI running
- 📁 **Project Overview** - Understanding the codebase
- 🔧 **Configuration** - Setting up your preferences
- 🐛 **Troubleshooting** - Common issues and solutions

### For Developers:
- 🏗️ **Architecture** - How components work together
- 🔗 **API Reference** - Function and class documentation
- 🧪 **Testing Guide** - How to run and write tests
- 🤖 **Model Training** - Training custom AI models

### For Contributors:
- 📝 **Code Style** - Coding standards and conventions
- 🔀 **Git Workflow** - How to contribute changes
- 🧪 **Testing Requirements** - Quality assurance standards
- 📤 **Deployment** - How to release updates

---

## 🎯 Using the Documentation

### 1. **Getting Started**
```bash
# Read the project structure first
cat docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Then check the main README
cat README.md

# Follow the quick start guide
python main.py
```

### 2. **Development**
```bash
# Understand the architecture
grep "core/" docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Learn about GUI components
grep "gui/" docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Check testing procedures
cat testing/README.md
```

### 3. **Troubleshooting**
```bash
# Search for specific components
grep "problem_component" docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Check relevant README files
cat relevant_directory/README.md

# Look at log files
cat logs/*.log
```

---

## 📖 Documentation Structure

### High-Level Overview:
```
Wolf AI Documentation
├── 📋 README.md (Root) - User guide & setup
├── 📁 docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md - Technical overview
├── 📁 testing/README.md - Testing procedures
├── 📁 model-training/README.md - AI training
├── 📁 development/README.md - Dev tools
└── 📁 utilities/README.md - Helper tools
```

### Detailed Information:
- **🎯 Purpose** - Why each component exists
- **🔧 Usage** - How to use each tool
- **📋 Examples** - Practical usage examples
- **🐛 Troubleshooting** - Common issues and fixes
- **🔗 Dependencies** - How components connect

---

## 📝 Contributing to Documentation

### Adding New Documentation:
```bash
# Create new documentation file
echo "# New Feature Guide" > docs/new_feature.md

# Add content following the template:
# - Purpose
# - Usage
# - Examples
# - Troubleshooting
```

### Updating Existing Docs:
```bash
# Update when adding features
# Update when changing structure
# Update when fixing issues
# Keep examples current
```

### Documentation Standards:
- 📝 **Clear Language** - Simple, direct explanations
- 🎯 **Purpose-Driven** - Explain why, not just what
- 📋 **Examples** - Practical, copy-pasteable code
- 🔗 **Cross-References** - Link to related docs

---

## 🔍 Finding Information

### Search Documentation:
```bash
# Search all README files
grep -r "search_term" */README.md

# Find specific component info
find . -name "*.md" -exec grep -l "component_name" {} \;

# Search for file types
find . -name "*.py" | head -10
```

### Quick Reference:
```bash
# Project structure
cat docs/PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md

# Testing procedures
cat testing/README.md

# Model training
cat model-training/README.md

# Development tools
cat development/README.md
```

---

## 📚 Documentation Best Practices

### Writing Style:
- ✅ **Clear and Concise** - Get to the point
- ✅ **Action-Oriented** - Focus on what users can do
- ✅ **Examples First** - Show before telling
- ✅ **Consistent Formatting** - Use templates

### Organization:
- 📁 **Logical Structure** - Group related information
- 🔗 **Cross-References** - Link between documents
- 📋 **Table of Contents** - Help users navigate
- 🏷️ **Clear Headings** - Use descriptive titles

### Maintenance:
- 🔄 **Regular Updates** - Keep docs current with code
- 🧪 **Test Examples** - Ensure code examples work
- 📝 **User Feedback** - Incorporate user suggestions
- 📊 **Usage Analytics** - Track which docs are used most

---

## 🎯 Documentation Goals

### For Users:
- 🚀 **Quick Success** - Get started fast
- 🔧 **Easy Configuration** - Understand settings
- 🐛 **Problem Solving** - Fix issues independently
- 📈 **Feature Discovery** - Find all capabilities

### For Developers:
- 🏗️ **Architecture Understanding** - Know how it works
- 🔗 **Integration Points** - Connect components properly
- 🧪 **Testing Knowledge** - Ensure quality
- 🤖 **Model Training** - Customize AI behavior

### For Contributors:
- 📝 **Clear Guidelines** - Know how to contribute
- 🔀 **Workflow Understanding** - Follow processes
- 🧪 **Quality Standards** - Maintain excellence
- 📤 **Release Process** - Deploy changes correctly

---

This documentation serves as your complete guide to understanding, using, and developing Wolf AI. Whether you're a user wanting to get started, a developer extending functionality, or a contributor improving the project, you'll find the information you need here! 📚✨
